Hey dol! merry dol! ring a dong dillo!
Ring a dong! hop along! fal lal the willow!
Tom Bom, jolly Tom, Tom Bombadillo!
Hey! Come merry dol! derry dol! My darling!
Light goes the weather-wind and the feathered starling.
Down along under Hill, shining in the sunlight,
Waiting on the doorstep for the cold starlight,
There my pretty lady is, River-woman's daughter,
Slender as the willow-wand, clearer than the water.
Old Tom Bombadil water-lilies bringing
Comes hopping home again. Can you hear him singing?
Hey! Come merry dol! derry dol! and merry-o,
Goldberry, Goldberry, merry yellow berry-o!
Poor old Willow-man, you tuck your roots away!
Tom's in a hurry now. Evening will follow day.
Tom's going home again water-lilies bringing.
Hey! Come derry dol! Can you hear me singing?
Whoa! Whoa! steady there!
Now, my little fellows, where be you a-going to, puffing
like a bellows? What's the matter here then? Do you know
who I am? I'm Tom Bombadil. Tell me what's your trouble!
Tom's in a hurry now. Don't you crush my lilies!
Old Man Willow? Naught worse than that, eh? That can soon be
mended. I know the tune for him. Old grey Willow-man! I'll
freeze his marrow cold, if he don't behave himself. I'll sing
his roots off. I'll sing a wind up and blow leaf and branch
away. Old Man Willow!
You let them out again, Old Man Willow! What be you
the fellowship of the ring
a-thinking of? You should not be waking. Eat earth! Dig
deep! Drink water! Go to sleep! Bombadil is talking!
Well, my little fellows! You shall
come home with me! The table is all laden with yellow cream,
honeycomb, and white bread and butter. Goldberry is waiting.
Time enough for questions around the supper table. You
follow after me as quick as you are able!
Hop along, my little friends, up the Withywindle!
Tom's going on ahead candles for to kindle.
Down west sinks the Sun: soon you will be groping.
When the night-shadows fall, then the door will open,
Out of the window-panes light will twinkle yellow.
Fear no alder black! Heed no hoary willow!
Fear neither root nor bough! Tom goes on before you.
Hey now! merry dol! We'll be waiting for you!
Hey! Come merry dol!
Hey! Come derry dol! Hop along, my hearties!
Hobbits! Ponies all! We are fond of parties.
Now let the fun begin! Let us sing together!
Now let the song begin! Let us sing together
Of sun, stars, moon and mist, rain and cloudy weather,
Light on the budding leaf, dew on the feather,
Wind on the open hill, bells on the heather,
Reeds by the shady pool, lilies on the water:
Old Tom Bombadil and the River-daughter!
Fair lady Goldberry! Now the joy that was
hidden in the songs we heard is made plain to me.
O slender as a willow-wand! O clearer than clear water!
O reed by the living pool! Fair River-daughter!
O spring-time and summer-time, and spring again after!
O wind on the waterfall, and the leaves' laughter!
Old Tom Bombadil is a merry fellow;
Bright blue his jacket is, and his boots are yellow.
I had an errand there: gathering water-lilies,
green leaves and lilies white to please my pretty lady,
the last ere the year's end to keep them from the winter,
to flower by her pretty feet till the snows are melted.
Each year at summer's end I go to find them for her,
in a wide pool, deep and clear, far down Withywindle;
there they open first in spring and there they linger latest.
By that pool long ago I found the River-daughter,
fair young Goldberry sitting in the rushes.
Sweet was her singing then, and her heart was beating!
And that proved well for you – for now I shall no longer
go down deep again along the forest-water,
not while the year is old. Nor shall I be passing
Old Man Willow's house this side of spring-time,
not till the merry spring, when the River-daughter
dances down the withy-path to bathe in the water.
Eh, what? Did I hear you calling? Nay, I did not
hear: I was busy singing. Just chance brought me then, if
chance you call it. It was no plan of mine, though I was
waiting for you. We heard news of you, and learned that you
were wandering. We guessed you'd come ere long down to
the water: all paths lead that way, down to Withywindle. Old
grey Willow-man, he's a mighty singer; and it's hard for little
folk to escape his cunning mazes. But Tom had an errand
there, that he dared not hinder.
Hey! Come merry dol! derry dol! My hearties!
Good morning, merry friends! Sun won't show her face much today, I'm thinking. I
have been walking wide, leaping on the hill-tops, since the
grey dawn began, nosing wind and weather, wet grass underfoot,
wet sky above me. I wakened Goldberry singing
under window; but naught wakes hobbit-folk in the early
morning. In the night little folk wake up in the darkness, and
sleep after light has come! Ring a ding dillo! Wake now, my
merry friends! Forget the nightly noises! Ring a ding dillo
del! derry del, my hearties! If you come soon you'll find
breakfast on the table. If you come late you'll get grass and
rain-water!
Eh, what? Don't you know my name yet? That's the only
answer. Tell me, who are you, alone, yourself and nameless?
But you are young and I am old. Eldest, that's what I am.
Mark my words, my friends: Tom was here before the river
and the trees; Tom remembers the first raindrop and the first
acorn. He made paths before the Big People, and saw the
little People arriving. He was here before the Kings and the
graves and the Barrow-wights. When the Elves passed westward,
Tom was here already, before the seas were bent. He
knew the dark under the stars when it was fearless – before
the Dark Lord came from Outside.
And let us have food and drink! Long tales
are thirsty. And long listening's hungry work, morning, noon,
and evening!
Hey there! Hey! Come Frodo, there!
Where be you a-going? Old Tom Bombadil's not as blind as
that yet. Take off your golden ring! Your hand's more fair
without it. Come back! Leave your game and sit down beside
me! We must talk a while more, and think about the morning.
Tom must teach the right road, and keep your feet from
wandering.
I am no weather-master, nor is aught that goes on two legs.
Keep to the green grass. Don't you go a-meddling with
old stone or cold Wights or prying in their houses, unless you
be strong folk with hearts that never falter!
Ho! Tom Bombadil, Tom Bombadillo!
By water, wood and hill, by the reed and willow,
By fire, sun and moon, harken now and hear us!
Come, Tom Bombadil, for our need is near us!
Goldberry! My fair lady, clad all in silver green!
We have never said farewell to her, nor seen her since the
evening!
Old Tom Bombadil is a merry fellow,
Bright blue his jacket is, and his boots are yellow.
None has ever caught him yet, for Tom, he is the master:
His songs are stronger songs, and his feet are faster.
Get out, you old Wight! Vanish in the sunlight!
Shrivel like the cold mist, like the winds go wailing,
Out into the barren lands far beyond the mountains!
Come never here again! Leave your barrow empty!
Lost and forgotten be, darker than the darkness,
Where gates stand for ever shut, till the world is mended.
Wake now my merry lads! Wake and hear me calling!
Warm now be heart and limb! The cold stone is fallen;
Dark door is standing wide; dead hand is broken.
Night under Night is flown, and the Gate is open!
You've found yourselves again, out of the deep water. Clothes are but little loss,
if you escape from drowning. Be glad, my merry friends,
and let the warm sunlight heat now heart and limb! Cast off
these cold rags! Run naked on the grass, while Tom goes
a-hunting!
Hey! now! Come hoy now! Whither do you wander?
Up, down, near or far, here, there or yonder?
Sharp-ears, Wise-nose, Swish-tail and Bumpkin,
White-socks my little lad, and old Fatty Lumpkin!
Here are your ponies, now! They've more sense
in some ways than you wandering hobbits have – more
sense in their noses. For they sniff danger ahead which you
walk right into; and if they run to save themselves, then they
run the right way. You must forgive them all; for though their
hearts are faithful, to face fear of Barrow-wights is not what
they were made for. See, here they come again, bringing all
their burdens!
He's mine, My four-legged friend; though I
seldom ride him, and he wanders often far, free upon the
hillsides. When your ponies stayed with me, they got to know
my Lumpkin; and they smelt him in the night, and quickly
ran to meet him. I thought he'd look for them and with his
words of wisdom take all their fear away. But now, my jolly
Lumpkin, old Tom's going to ride. Hey! he's coming with
you, just to set you on the road; so he needs a pony. For you
cannot easily talk to hobbits that are riding, when you're on
your own legs trying to trot beside them.
I've got things to do, my making and my singing, my talking and
my walking, and my watching of the country. Tom can't be
always near to open doors and willow-cracks. Tom has his
house to mind, and Goldberry is waiting.
Here is a pretty toy for Tom and for his lady! Fair was
she who long ago wore this on her shoulder. Goldberry shall
wear it now, and we will not forget her!
Old knives are long enough as swords for hobbit-people.
Sharp blades are good to have, if Shire-folk go
walking, east, south, or far away into dark and danger.
Few now remember them, yet still
some go wandering, sons of forgotten kings walking in loneliness,
guarding from evil things folk that are heedless.
No, I hope not tonight, nor
perhaps the next day. But do not trust my guess; for I cannot
tell for certain. Out east my knowledge fails. Tom is not
master of Riders from the Black Land far beyond his
country.
Tom will give you good advice, till this day is over (after
that your own luck must go with you and guide you): four
miles along the Road you'll come upon a village, Bree under
Bree-hill, with doors looking westward. There you'll find an
old inn that is called The Prancing Pony. Barliman Butterbur
is the worthy keeper. There you can stay the night, and
afterwards the morning will speed you upon your way. Be
bold, but wary! Keep up your merry hearts, and ride to meet
your fortune!
Tom's country ends here: he will not pass the borders.
Tom has his house to mind, and Goldberry is waiting!
