= Chud Burns
  They are liars.
  They are disingenuous.
  They fool those who do not know better.
  This will be the final nail in the coffin of their careers.
  Nobody will work with them after this.
  This should be the easiest to succeed, and yet we have garbage.
  They should be embarrassed
  There's still the fact of how they got there.
  Had no idea where they would be and managed to travel hundreds miles in seconds.
  Oh that completely worn out, tired phrase!
  Explain with references and citations.
  You're an absolute charlaton.
  Here you are, trying desperately.
  It's absolutely ludicrous to suggest otherwise.
  You're the "suspicious" one, mate.
  Yes just disregard that people have legit criticisms.
  Typical.
  Bad writing/storytelling can be objectively pinpointed so what are you on about?
  This classic handwave always sounds good ... to children I guess.
  Meanwhile, reality: all the subjective opinions in the world are not equal.
  This is the best you people have because you can't actually defend against it.
  I think you're behaving like a child too.
  Pretending that all opinions are equal.
  No one should accept substandard quality trading on the legacy of a legend.
  What a genius.
  You're new to the discussion then, I see.
  Some of us have lives.
  But this is what you do when you have no argument.
  Make stupid assumptions based on a couple of tweets you've seen
  That's about the level of analysis of anyone who likes this shit.
  You might need to to wipe your memory of this.
  The problem is acting like both are one and the same.
  That still doesn't change the fact that the show has failed miserably
  It's losing audience.
  Many people are watching other things.
  You ruined my favorite one.
  You turned into a feminist cliche.
  You need to quit your job and become a roofer!
  You just beclowned yourself completely by responding.
  If you cant argue a point, dont jump in and make a fool of yourself chum.
  Would not make sense to those of us that has read the books though.
  I just pointed out one inconsitency.
  You do understand what you read?
  I dont need to make a better show I needed this one to be good, it isn't by a stretch.
