= Problem Solving
  First, Identify the Problem: What is the problem you are trying to solve?
  Then, Gather Information: What information do you need to know in order to solve the problem?
  After, Analyze the Information: What can you do with the information you have?
  Next, Generate Solutions: What are some possible solutions to the problem?
  Then, Evaluate the Solutions: Which solution is the best one?
  Finally, Implement the Solution: How can you put your solution into action?
  Define the problem. What are the parameters and what are the goals?
  Gather information. What do you need to know to solve this problem?
  Develop a plan. How will you go about solving this problem?
  Implement the plan. Put your plan into action.
  Monitor and adjust. Are you on track? If not, what do you need to do to get back on track?
  Evaluate the results. Did your plan work? If not, why not?
  Learn from the experience. What can you take away from this to help you in future problem solving endeavors?
  Task - what is the problem?
  Obstacles - what is preventing me from achieving my goal?
  Brainstorm - what are some possible solutions?
  Choose - which solution will I try?
  Plan - how will I implement my chosen solution?
  Do - take action and see how it goes!
  Evaluate - did my plan work? If not, why not? What could I do differently next time?
  Clarify the problem. What are you trying to achieve? What are the specific constraints and conditions?
  Gather information. What do you know? What do you need to find out?
  Identify potential solutions. What are some possible approaches?
  Evaluate the solutions. Which one is most likely to work?
  Implement the solution. Put your plan into action.
  Monitor and adjust. Is your solution working? If not, what do you need to change?
  Evaluate the results. What did you learn? What could you do better next time?
  Define the problem: What are the parameters and what are the goals?
  Generate possible solutions: What are some potential solutions to the problem?
  Evaluate the solutions: Which solution is the best one?
  Implement the solution: How can you put your solution into action?
  Monitor the results: What are the results of your solution? Are they what you expected?
  Make adjustments: If necessary, make adjustments to your solution.
  Evaluate the results: How did the solution work? What could you do better next time?
  Identify the problem. What is the issue you are trying to solve?
  Gather information. What do you need to know to solve the problem?
  Develop a plan. What is your approach to solving the problem?
  Implement the plan. How will you put your plan into action?
  Monitor progress. How is the plan working?
  Evaluate results. Did the plan work? If not, why not?
  Learn from experience. What did you learn from this problem-solving experience that will help you in future situations?
  Define the problem: What is the issue you are trying to solve?
  Gather information: What do you need to know to solve the problem?
  Generate solutions: What are some possible solutions to the problem?
  Evaluate the solutions: Which solution is the best one?
  Implement the solution: How can you put your solution into action?
  Monitor the results: What are the results of your solution? Are there any improvements that could be made?
  Learn from the experience: What did you learn from this problem-solving process? What could you do differently next time?
  Identify the problem: what is the issue you are trying to solve?
  Gather information: what do you need to know in order to solve the problem?
  Develop a plan: what are the steps you need to take to solve the problem?
  Implement the plan: put your plan into action.
  Monitor progress: check in periodically to see how the plan is working.
  Evaluate results: did the plan work? If not, why not? What could be done differently next time?
  Define the problem: What is the issue you are trying to solve?
  Gather information: What do you need to know to solve the problem?
  Develop a hypothesis: What do you think is the cause of the problem?
  Test the hypothesis: What can you do to prove or disprove your hypothesis?
  Analyze the results: What did you learn from your tests?
  Draw a conclusion: What is your final answer to the problem?
